PREVIOUSLY
ON "WAYWARD PINES"...
EVERYBODY'S
A PRISONER HERE.
THERE'S CAMERAS
AND MIKES EVERYWHERE.
THIS WHOLE TOWN
IS UNDER SURVEILLANCE.
Brad: THE THING
ABOUT THIS TOWN IS THAT
THEY FOCUS
ON THE CHILDREN.
IT'S ALL ABOUT SHAPING
THE MIND OF THE CHILD.
GUESS WHAT?
I'M GONNA BE YOUR TEACHER.
Ben: HAVE YOU EVER
BEEN TO THAT FENCE?
DO YOU KNOW ABOUT THOSE...
ANIMALS ON THE OTHER SIDE?
BEN!
WHAT ARE YOU DOING?!
I TOLD YOU I WAS GOING
TO PICK YOU UP AT SCHOOL!
MR. BURKE, SO THRILLED
TO HAVE YOU AS OUR NEW SHERIFF.
Ethan: I GUESS WHEN YOU
KILL SOMEBODY IN THIS TOWN,
THEY GIVE YOU HIS JOB.
WHY WON'T YOUR PARENTS
TAKE YOU HOME, BEN?
'CAUSE THEY CAN'T.
I WILL DO EVERYTHING
IN MY POWER TO ENSURE
THAT THE EVILS OF THIS TOWN
ARE BROUGHT TO LIGHT.
WHY CAN'T ANYBODY
LEAVE THIS TOWN?
THERE'S ONLY
ONE WAY OUT.
Theresa:
"THERESA, CONGRATULATIONS!
"A SPOT HAS JUST OPENED AT
WAYWARD PINES REALTY ASSOCIATES.
"ONE OF OUR SENIOR REALTORS
HAS CHOSEN TO RETIRE.
I NEED YOU TO STAY HERE.
I'M GOING TO BOISE
TO GET SOME HELP.
[ GROWLING ]
[ GASPS ]
[ GRUNTS ]
[ PANTING ]
[ RUSTLING ]
[ GASPS ]
[ PANTING ]
[ GROANING ]
[ RAPID FOOTSTEPS ]
[ GROWLING ]
[ SCREECHING ]
HEY, SO TOMORROW,
DO YOU WANT TO WALK TO SCHOOL
WITH SAM AND KATIE
AND ME?
WE ALWAYS GO TOGETHER,
AND YOU LIVE RIGHT BY US, SO...
OH. YEAH, SURE.
COOL.
UH, WHAT TIME?
UH, 7:00.
CORNER OF MAPLE AND 15th.
COOL. SO...
SO, TONIGHT WAS COOL.
SORRY.
I SUCK AT THIS.
I COULDN'T TELL.
I'LL SEE YOU TOMORROW.
[ CHUCKLES ]
[ SIGHS ]
[ WATER RUNNING ]
MOM.
YOU OKAY?
YEAH.
[ CLEARS THROAT ]
I'M GOOD.
HOW ARE YOU?
WHERE'S DAD?
HE'S WORKING LATE.
HE'S TRYING TO FINISH UP
THIS CASE, BUT HE'S CLOSE.
AND WE'RE GONNA
GET OUT OF HERE SOON
AND GET BACK TO SEATTLE.
[ GROANING ]
OW, OW.
HOW DOES THAT SOUND?
GREAT.
[ SIGHS ]
[ PANTING, GROANING ]
[ BIRD CRIES ]
[ INHALES SHARPLY ]
MORNING.
HMM.
WHAT'S THE RUSH?
I TOLD AMY
I'D WALK TO SCHOOL
WITH HER AND
A COUPLE FRIENDS, SO...
BEN, I THOUGHT WE TALKED
ABOUT THIS ALREADY.
I WANT TO WALK YOU
TO SCHOOL EVERY DAY.
IT'S A FIVE-MINUTE WALK.
I THINK I'LL SURVIVE.
BEN.
LOOK, THEY'RE
MY FRIENDS, MOM.
LISTEN, I KNOW
THAT THEY'RE YOUR FRIENDS.
I'M JUST TELLING YOU
THAT WE DON'T REALLY KNOW
WHAT THIS TOWN IS ABOUT YET
AND THAT MAYBE
WE SHOULD BE EXTRA CAREFUL
'CAUSE
WE ALSO DON'T KNOW
WHO OUR REAL FRIENDS
ARE YET, OKAY?
YEAH, YOU'RE RIGHT.
WHO WOULD EVER
WANT TO BE FRIENDS
WITH A LOSER LIKE ME,
RIGHT?
BEN. BEN,
I DID NOT MEAN THAT.
YOU AND DAD TOLD ME
THAT I SHOULD FIT IN.
MAYBE THAT'S WEIRD FOR YOU,
BUT I AM.
WHAT ARE YOU DOING?
YOU'RE JUST
SITTING AROUND THE HOUSE,
HOPING THAT THINGS
WILL MAGICALLY GET BETTER,
BUT THEY NEVER DO.
[ SIGHS ]
[ INSECTS CHIRPING ]
[ INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS ]
HEADS UP!
Boy: HURRY UP!
HEY, BEN,
HOW'S IT GOING?
HEY.
HEY, BEN.
HEY. HEY.
WHAT IS IT?
I --
ALL THESE KIDS...
SEE YOU, BEN.
SEE YA.
BYE.
THEY'RE ALL BEING NICE TO ME
BECAUSE THEY WANT TO BE, RIGHT?
WHAT?
LIKE,
THEY WEREN'T TOLD TO...
I DON'T KNOW --
BE MY FRIEND, WERE THEY?
[ CHUCKLES ]
WHAT ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT?
AT MY OLD SCHOOL,
EVERYTHING WAS DIFFERENT
AND EVERYONE
WAS DIFFERENT TOWARDS ME.
IT'S LIKE
THEY DIDN'T EVEN SEE ME.
AND THEN, I COME HERE
FOR A COUPLE DAYS,
AND EVERYONE TALKS TO ME,
EVERYONE SEES ME.
ISN'T THAT
A GOOD THING?
I GUESS.
I-I JUST DON'T
UNDERSTAND
WHY THINGS
ARE SO DIFFERENT HERE.
THIS SCHOOL...
IT ISN'T LIKE YOUR OTHER SCHOOL
OR ANY OTHER SCHOOL.
WE'RE ALL
IN THIS TOGETHER.
[ STAMMERS ]
WAIT, ALL OF WHAT TOGETHER?
Woman: REED FINLEY,
CARRIE BARNES, BENJAMIN BURKE,
PLEASE REPORT TO ROOM ONE
FOR ORIENTATION.
ORIENTAT--
WHAT'S ORIENTATION?
REED FINLEY...
GOOD LUCK.
...CARRIE BARNES,
BENJAMIN BURKE,
PLEASE REPORT TO ROOM ONE
FOR ORIENTATION.
[ BIRDS CHIRPING ]
[ BELL JINGLES ]
[ KNOCK ON DOOR ]
HELLO?
[ WOLF-WHISTLES ]
WELL, WELL,
YOU MUST BE THERESA,
MY NEW NUMBER TWO.
EH, THE NAME'S BILL.
BUT EVERYONE HERE, THEY --
THEY CALLS ME "BIG BILL."
WHY? I HAVE NO IDEA.
[ CHUCKLES ]
AH. [ CLICKS TONGUE ]
I GOT TO SAY,
YOU'RE A HELL OF A LOT EASIER
ON THE EYES THAN OLD PETEY.
[ LAUGHS ]
[ CHUCKLES ]
DON'T GET ME WRONG.
PETEY WAS
A GOOD FRIEND,
BUT GRAFFITI
ON MAIN STREET?
YOU JUST NEVER KNOW
ABOUT SOME PEOPLE.
HMM. THIS WAY, HON.
KEEP UP.
IS IT JUST YOU HERE?
WELL, HENRIETTA
HELPS WITH THE BOOKS.
BUT OTHERWISE,
IT'S, UH, JUST ME AND YOU --
PARTNERS.
I'M SORRY
ABOUT ALL THIS MESS.
I ASKED HER TO PUT
ALL THIS AWAY,
BUT THE POOR WOMAN
WAS DISTRAUGHT.
SHE WANTED
PETEY'S JOB HERSELF.
UH, SHE LOST
THE JOB TO ME?
OH, I'M SURE
SHE'S MUCH MORE EXPERIENCED.
THEY TOLD ME YOU WERE
THE PERFECT CHOICE.
YEAH, WHO IS THEY,
EXACTLY?
[ CHUCKLES ]
I'VE BEEN --
HERE WE GO!
[ CHUCKLES ]
YOUR FIRST CLIENT.
WHAT AM I SUPPOSED TO
DO WITH THIS?
IS THERE A NUMBER
I SHOULD BE CALLING, OR --
OH, NOT ANYMORE.
HE LOST HIS PHONE
IN THE ACCIDENT.
THE ACCIDENT?
WELL, YOU SEE,
WAYNE, HE WORKS --
WELL,
WORKED CONSTRUCTION,
YOU KNOW, SETTING THOSE TRAFFIC
CONES FOR THOSE PAVING PROJECTS.
LATE AT NIGHT,
JUST HIM,
MOVING THOSE TRAFFIC CONES
ALL BY HIS LONESOME,
THEN BOOM!
HE GETS HIT BY A POLICE CAR
AND THROWN RIGHT OVER THE HOOD.
ROLLED OFF THE ROAD [SLAMS HAND]
DOWN A DITCH [SLAMS HAND]
AND CRASHED HEADFIRST
INTO A CONCRETE DAM.
BUT PAM --
YOU KNOW NURSE PAM?
MM-HMM.
[ CLICKS TONGUE ]
WELL, SHE FIXED HIM UP
REAL GOOD.
BUT NOW IT'S TIME FOR HIM
TO LEAVE HER CARE.
B-BUT THE PROBLEM IS,
WAYNE, WELL, HE --
WELL, HE LOST DAMN NEAR
EVERYTHING IN THAT ACCIDENT,
MORE THAN HIS PHONE.
HE DOESN'T EVEN HAVE
A PLACE TO STAY.
THAT'S WHERE
YOU COME IN.
OKAY, SO YOU WANT ME
TO SELL HIM A HOUSE?
[ Chuckling ] NO.
I WANT YOU
TO GIVE HIM A HOUSE.
YOU'LL EARN A GOLD STAR
IF YOU DO.
YOU WANT ME
TO GIVE HIM A HOUSE?
MM-HMM.
THINK OF IT AS A --
AS A WELCOMING PRESENT FROM
HIS FRIENDS AT WAYWARD PINES.
[ CLICKS TONGUE ]
WE'RE GONNA MAKE
A HELL OF A TEAM.
YOU THANK YOUR HUSBAND
FOR KILLING PETEY, WILL YA?
[ LAUGHS ]
HI, I'M BEN.
CARRIE.
REED.
YOU BOTH NEW HERE,
TOO?
WHAT'S 111?
NO IDEA,
BUT I'M 110.
AND I'M 109.
[ SQUEAKING IN DISTANCE ]
[ DOOR CLOSES ]
WELCOME TO ORIENTATION.
[ INSECTS CHIRPING ]
[ ZIPPER OPENS ]
THESE ARE STUDENTS
001 THROUGH 003,
THE VERY FIRST
TO COMPLETE ORIENTATION.
WHEN THEY WERE INVITED
TO THIS ROOM,
THEY WERE JUST LIKE YOU,
THEY HAD ONLY JUST ARRIVED
IN WAYWARD PINES.
AND LIKE YOU,
THEY WERE INVITED TO THIS ROOM
BECAUSE THEY SHOWED
GREAT APTITUDE
DURING OUR
INDIVIDUAL SESSIONS.
ASSUMING YOU ALL
MAKE IT THROUGH TODAY...
...YOUR PICTURE
WILL JOIN THESE STUDENTS,
AND YOU WILL
OFFICIALLY BECOME PART
OF THE FIRST GENERATION
OF WAYWARD PINES.
THIS IS A GREAT HONOR
AND PRIVILEGE.
WE ONLY ALLOW THOSE
WHO ARE TRULY EXCEPTIONAL
TO JOIN
THE FIRST GENERATION.
WE ONLY ALLOW THOSE
WHO WE BELIEVE...
ARE TRULY READY.
READY FOR WHAT?
FOR THE TRUTH.
[ ELEVATOR BELL DINGS ]
MR. JOHNSON?
MY NAME
IS THERESA BURKE,
AND I'M HERE...
BECAUSE I HEARD THAT
YOU NEEDED SOME ASSISTANCE.
IN FINDING A PLACE?
I HAVE A PLACE THAT I THINK
YOU'RE REALLY GONNA LOVE.
IT'S, UM...
IT JUST CAME
ON THE MARKET.
STOP.
PLEASE, JUST STOP.
I'M SORRY,
MR. JOHNSON.
IT MUST BE A VERY
DIFFICULT TIME FOR YOU.
I AM JUST HERE
TO HELP.
I JUST WANT TO
BE ALONE, PLEASE.
ARE YOU SURE YOU'RE OKAY?
DO YOU WANT ME TO GET A NURSE?
NO, NOT --
NOT HER.
WAYNE, IF YOU'RE
FEELING CONFUSED AT ALL
OR YOU NEED
SOMEONE TO TALK TO,
YOU CAN TALK TO ME,
OKAY?
I ALSO
WAS IN AN ACCIDENT.
DID YOU SEE IT, TOO?
SEE WHAT?
AFTER THE ACCIDENT...
I SAW SOMETHING.
SOMETHING AWFUL.
THEY DID S-SOMETHING
TO ME, TO US,
AND THAT NURSE,
S-SHE -- SHE WAS THERE.
HEY.
So, who have you
told this to?
NO -- NO ONE.
This place,
this town is not safe.
We need to be very,
very careful.
Do you understand
what I'm saying?
Now tell me what you saw,
quickly.
UH...
WHAT A PLEASANT SURPRISE.
I DIDN'T EXPECT
TO SEE YOU, THERESA.
ARE YOU ACQUAINTED
WITH DEAR MR. JOHNSON?
I WAS ACTUALLY JUST SHOWING HIM
SOME NEW PROPERTIES.
OH, OF COURSE.
YOU GOT PETER'S JOB.
CONGRATULATIONS.
I CERTAINLY HOPE YOU DO
BETTER THAN POOR PETER.
OF COURSE, I KNEW
HE'D NEVER MAKE IT.
FAR TOO MUCH
OF A FREETHINKER.
YOU KNOW WHAT?
I HAVE AN IDEA.
WHAT DO YOU SAY? LET'S TAKE
A LOOK AT THIS HOUSE.
I REALLY THINK
YOU'RE GONNA LOVE IT.
IT HAS A BIG YARD,
IT'S ON A CORNER LOT,
AND IT'S PRIVATE,
VERY PRIVATE.
NOW, TELL ME
WHAT YOU SEE.
UH, IT -- IT LOOKS
LIKE WAYWARD PINES.
CLOSE, BUT NOT QUITE.
THIS PHOTOGRAPH
WAS TAKEN 14 YEARS AGO,
ABOUT 100 YARDS BEYOND
THE PERIMETER OF WAYWARD PINES.
[ PROJECTOR CLICKS ]
NOW TAKE ANOTHER LOOK.
DO YOU SEE ANYTHING OFF
ABOUT THIS PHOTO?
YEAH, THERE'S SOMETHING
IN THE TOP LEFT CORNER.
VERY GOOD, BEN.
THIS WAS OUR FIRST REAL EVIDENCE
OF THEIR EXISTENCE.
UH, WHAT'S EXISTENCE?
WHY DON'T YOU TELL ME?
BIGFOOT?
[ CHUCKLES ]
BIGFOOT IS ALWAYS ALONE,
IS HE NOT?
THE NEXT PHOTOGRAPH
WAS TAKEN THREE MONTHS LATER.
IT COST US
TWO LIVES TO GET.
[ GROWLING IN DISTANCE ]
WHAT ARE THEY?
WE REFER TO THEM
AS ABBIES.
ABBIES?
SHORT FOR ABERRATIONS.
THEY ARE THE RESULT OF
A SERIES OF GENETIC MUTATIONS,
OR ABERRATIONS.
THEY EVOLVED
IN A HARSH ENVIRONMENT
AND ARE NOW THE SINGLE
MOST EFFICIENT CARNIVORES
ON THE PLANET.
IN THE FOOD CHAIN,
NOTHING ELSE COMES CLOSE,
NOT EVEN US.
[ GROWLING ]
ON ITS OWN, AN ABBY CAN KILL
AND DEVOUR AN ARMED SOLDIER
IN A MATTER OF MINUTES.
ISOLATED, IT IS POSSIBLE,
ALBEIT UNLIKELY,
TO OVERCOME AN ABBY,
BUT THEY ALWAYS
TRAVEL IN HERDS.
AND IF YOU COME ACROSS A HERD,
SURVIVAL IS,
QUITE SIMPLY, IMPOSSIBLE.
NOTE THE BIRD-LIKE TALONS,
CAPABLE OF KILLING PREY
IN A SINGLE STROKE.
THEIR EARS HAVE
AN EXTENDED RANGE OF HEARING,
ALLOWING THEM TO PICK UP
ON THE SUBTLEST OF SOUNDS.
THEIR SENSE OF SMELL
IS ALSO HEIGHTENED,
100 TIMES STRONGER
THAN OUR OWN.
BUT REMEMBER, THE ABBIES
DID NOT BEGIN LIKE THIS.
THEY BECAME THIS.
THEIR DNA IS ONLY
A HALF-PERCENT DIFFERENT
THAN THE MAMMAL
THEY ORIGINATED FROM.
[ ROARING IN DISTANCE ]
DOES ANYONE KNOW
WHAT MAMMAL?
IT'S ONE YOU'RE ALL
VERY FAMILIAR WITH.
HOW ABOUT NOW?
IT LOOKS LIKE US.
THAT'S BECAUSE
IT ONCE WAS.
[ INDISTINCT CONVERSATION ]
AFTER ORIENTATION,
I DIDN'T EAT FOR TWO DAYS.
[ CHUCKLES ]
HEY.
THINGS MAKING
ANY MORE SENSE FOR YOU?
NOT REALLY.
NOT AT ALL.
YEAH, IT TAKES SOME TIME
TO TAKE IT ALL IN.
[ CHUCKLES ]
IT'S NOT THAT.
IT'S JUST...BASIC LOGIC.
OR ILLOGIC.
I MEAN, IF...IF --
IF WHAT MRS. FISHER
IS TEACHING
IS ACTUALLY TRUE
AND THESE ABBIES
ACTUALLY EXIST,
HOW HAVE I NEVER
HEARD OF THEM BEFORE?
THEY'RE RUNNING AROUND
IN BROAD DAYLIGHT IN IDAHO.
WE ARE IN IDAHO,
RIGHT?
[ CHUCKLES ]
YEAH.
WE ARE IN IDAHO.
AND WHAT MRS. FISHER
IS TEACHING YOU IS TRUE.
I PROMISE.
BUT THEN, HOW --
BEN.
IT'S ONLY LUNCH.
IT WILL ALL
MAKE SENSE SOON.
I PROMISE.
Megan: LISTEN.
I KNOW YOU'RE CONFUSED
AND LOST,
BUT THE NEXT LESSON
SHOULD HELP CLEAR THINGS UP.
THESE COINS
DO NOT HOLD VALUE ANYMORE,
BUT THEY HOLD SOMETHING
FAR MORE IMPORTANT --
ANSWERS.
HERE WE GO.
SEE?
WHAT DID I SAY?
IT'S BEAUTIFUL.
BEAUTIFUL LIGHT,
A LOT OF SPACE.
I THINK IT WAS BUILT
12 YEARS AGO,
SO EVERYTHING
WORKS LIKE NEW,
WHICH IS NICE.
YOU KNOW WHAT?
WHY DON'T WE START IN THE BACK?
AND WE'LL WORK OUR WAY
TO THE FRONT, OKAY?
[ SIGHS ]
IT'S -- IT'S OLD -- REALLY OLD.
MAYBE...ROMAN TIMES?
THERE'S SOMETHING ON IT.
CAN I SCRAPE IT OFF?
IT'S A QUARTER.
HMM.
HOW OLD IS IT?
YOU TELL ME.
2095.
I DON'T --
I DON'T UNDERSTAND.
HOW'S THAT POSSIBLE?
DON'T THINK OF IT IN TERMS
OF WHAT IS OR IS NOT POSSIBLE.
BEN, THINK ABOUT IT
IN TERMS OF THE FACTS.
WHAT DO YOU KNOW
ABOUT WHERE YOU ARE?
W-WE'RE IN WAYWARD PINES
IN IDAHO.
YES.
BUT WHAT'S THE LAST THING
YOU REMEMBER
BEFORE ARRIVING
IN WAYWARD PINES?
THE ACCIDENT.
AND HOW ABOUT YOU,
CARRIE?
A HIT-AND-RUN.
AND REED?
CAR CRASH.
[ INSECTS CHIRPING ]
AND WHAT DO YOU REMEMBER
AFTER THAT,
AFTER YOUR ACCIDENTS.
I WOKE UP IN
THE WAYWARD PINES HOSPITAL.
UH...ME, TOO.
ME, TOO.
DO YOU KNOW HOW LONG
YOU WERE UNCONSCIOUS?
YOU PROBABLY ASSUMED IT WAS ONLY
A FEW HOURS, A DAY AT MOST,
BUT THIS WAS NOT THE CASE.
YOUR ACCIDENTS WERE, IN FACT,
NOT ACCIDENTS AT ALL.
RATHER, YOU WERE ALL...
CHOSEN TO BE HERE.
YOU WERE CHOSEN TO BE PART
OF A SPECIAL COMMUNITY,
A COMMUNITY THAT IS NOT PART
OF THE WORLD YOU ONCE KNEW
BUT RATHER
A VERY DIFFERENT WORLD,
A WORLD WHERE ABBIES
THRIVE, RULE.
BUT HUMAN BEINGS DID NOT
BECOME ABBIES OVERNIGHT.
IT TOOK A LONG TIME,
A VERY LONG TIME.
THOSE QUARTERS YOU NOW HOLD
IN YOUR HAND LOOK VERY OLD
BECAUSE THEY ARE VERY OLD.
THEY ARE THE LAST KNOWN RELICS
OF HUMAN CIVILIZATION --
A CIVILIZATION
THAT DIED OUT...
ALMOST 2,000 YEARS AGO.
THIS IS NOT
THE YEAR 2014.
THIS IS THE YEAR 4028.
[ BEEP ]
LOOK AT THAT.
IT WORKS.
WHAT?
There are cameras
and microphones in this house,
and I need you
to keep your voice down.
We can talk in here,
but we can't stay long
because they will know
something's wrong.
WHO? WHO?
WHO WILL KNOW?
That is what I need
to know from you.
You said
you saw something.
I -- I WOKE UP
AFTER THE ACCIDENT, BUT...
I DON'T REMEMBER MUCH.
I MUST HAVE BEEN DRUGGED.
Megan:
I KNOW WHAT YOU'RE THINKING.
"THAT'S IMPOSSIBLE.
HOW COULD IT BE 4028?
HOW COULD WE HAVE SKIPPED
SO MUCH TIME?"
[ PROJECTOR CLICKS ]
BUT WHAT IF I TOLD YOU
THAT THIS MOUSE
CAN GO INTO A STATE WHICH ALLOWS
IT TO SURVIVE ALL WINTER LONG
WITHOUT EATING,
WITHOUT DRINKING,
AND THAT IT ACTUALLY
LIVES LONGER AS A RESULT?
WOULD YOU SAY
THAT'S IMPOSSIBLE, TOO?
BECAUSE IT'S NOT.
I REMEMBER
LOOKING OUT OF...
GLASS.
GLASS LIKE A --
A-A WINDOW.
A WINDOW, OKAY.
SO, WERE YOU
IN A CAR, OR...?
NO, I WAS, UH...
I WAS STANDING.
AND THE WINDOW,
IT WAS SMALLER.
IT WAS MORE LIKE...
IT WAS --
IT WAS MORE LIKE THIS.
AFTER YOUR ACCIDENTS,
YOU WERE ALL PLACED
INTO HIBERNATION CHAMBERS,
AND THERE YOU SLEPT.
THERE WERE PEOPLE.
THEY WERE OUTSIDE.
AND THEY WERE LOOKING IN.
THEY WERE L-LOOKING AT ME.
DO YOU REMEMBER
ANY FACES?
JUST THE -- THE --
THE NURSE.
AND JUST SHADOWS AND --
AND -- AND VOICES,
AND THEN I --
I PASSED OUT.
AND AS SOON AS YOU AWOKE,
YOU BECAME PART OF...
[ SIGHS ]
THE FIRST GENERATION.
BUT THERE WERE
MORE OF THESE.
THERE WERE MORE OF THESE --
THESE, UH --
THESE CHAMBERS,
AND THEY WERE ALL...
THEY WERE ALL
FILLED WITH...
FILLED WITH WHAT?
WITH PEOPLE.
WHY -- WHY WERE
WE CHOSEN?
THAT'S THE LAST QUESTION,
ISN'T IT?
AND PERHAPS
THE MOST IMPORTANT.
DO YOU BELIEVE ME?
YES, I BELIEVE YOU.
[ SIGHS ]
WHAT IS IT?
WHAT -- WHAT --
WHAT IS THIS PLACE?
THE SIMPLE ANSWER IS,
YOU WERE CHOSEN TO ASSURE
THE SURVIVAL OF THE HUMAN RACE.
I AM GOING TO
FIGURE THIS OUT.
I WILL FIND OUT
WHAT IT IS THAT YOU SAW
AND WHY WE ARE HERE --
I WILL.
BUT I NEED YOU
TO TAKE THIS HOUSE,
AND I NEED YOU TO DO IT
WITH A SMILE ON YOUR FACE, OKAY?
[ SIGHS ]
SO, I THINK THAT'S IT.
AND REMEMBER, EVERYTHING
THAT YOU SEE HERE IS YOURS.
YOU GET TO KEEP IT.
AND THE BEST PART IS,
IS IT DOESN'T EVEN COST A PENNY.
SO, YOU JUST GET TO MOVE IN
AND START LIVING YOUR LIFE.
DOESN'T THAT SOUND GREAT?
WHAT DO YOU SAY?
UH...
THANK YOU.
MY PLEASURE.
[ DOOR OPENS, CLOSES ]
[ HELICOPTER BLADES WHIRRING ]
Megan:
OVER 2,000 YEARS AGO,
A GREAT SCIENTIST FORESAW
THE COMING OF THE ABERRATIONS.
THE PERFECT EQUATION
THAT HELD OUR PLANET TOGETHER
WAS UNRAVELING,
AND HE KNEW MOTHER NATURE
WOULD DO AS SHE ALWAYS DOES --
SHE WOULD EVOLVE,
SHE WOULD CHANGE THE EQUATION,
SHE WOULD CHANGE US.
THIS SCIENTIST WANTED TO SAVE
A SELECT SAMPLE OF HUMANS
FROM THIS CHANGE
TO PRESERVE OUR KIND
AS WE ONCE WERE.
SO HE CREATED AN ARK.
HE CREATED WAYWARD PINES.
A SCIENTIST?
HIS NAME
IS DAVID PILCHER.
UNFORTUNATELY, YOU WILL
NEVER MEET DAVID PILCHER,
BUT YOU CAN TAKE COMFORT
IN THE FACT THAT
HE IS ALWAYS WATCHING OVER YOU.
HE WILL NEVER ALLOW
ANYTHING TO HAPPEN TO YOU
BECAUSE YOU
ARE THE FUTURE.
YOU ARE
THE FIRST GENERATION,
AND HE IS YOUR PROTECTOR.
YOU NEVER CEASE
TO IMPRESS ME, ETHAN.
NO ONE HAS EVER
MADE IT OUT THIS FAR BEFORE,
NOT ON THEIR OWN.
I SHOULD INTRODUCE MYSELF.
DAVID PILCHER.
PILCHER.
TELL ME ABOUT
THIS GUY PILCHER.
MY NAME IS DR. JENKINS.
DO YOU KNOW WHERE YOU ARE?
HAVE YOU NOTICED ANYTHING ELSE
GO UNEXPLAINED?
SO,
YOU'RE DAVID PILCHER.
WE CAN'T STAY HERE.
COME WITH ME,
BACK TO WAYWARD PINES.
PILCHER!
[ RIFLE COCKS ]
PUT DOWN YOUR WEAPON.
PUT IT DOWN.
WHAT IS THIS?
SOME KIND OF AN EXPERIMENT?
THAT'S NOT BOISE, OKAY?
I KNOW BOISE.
YOUR MIND IS LASHING OUT,
ETHAN.
IT DOESN'T WANT TO ACCEPT
THE TRUTH,
BUT TRUST YOUR OWN EYES,
EVERYTHING
YOU'VE SEEN TODAY.
THERE'S NOTHING FOR YOU
OUT HERE.
THE WORLD YOU KNOW
IS GONE.
AND OUR SPECIES HAS EVOLVED
INTO SOMETHING LESS THAN HUMAN.
ALL THAT IS LEFT
OF CIVILIZATION,
ALL THAT REMAINS IS...
WAYWARD PINES.
WHAT DO YOU WANT
FROM ME?
I WANT YOU
TO COME WITH ME.
AND I'LL SHOW YOU HOW,
TOGETHER,
WE CAN CHANGE THINGS
FOR THE BETTER.
[ SCREECHING IN DISTANCE ]
OR IF YOU PREFER,
YOU CAN DISCOVER FOR YOURSELF
WHAT IS OUT HERE.
[ SIGHS ]
IT'S YOUR CHOICE,
ETHAN.
Megan: WHAT YOU LEARN TODAY IS
FOR YOUR EYES AND EARS ONLY.
YOU DO NOT TELL
YOUR PARENTS.
YOU DO NOT TELL ANY ADULTS
FOR ONE SIMPLE REASON.
THE FUTURE
OF THIS GREAT TOWN LIES
NOT WITH THE ADULTS...
...BUT WITH YOU.
NOW, YOU MAY THINK
WHAT I'M ASKING IS UNFAIR.
YOU MAY FEEL LIKE
YOUR PARENTS DESERVE TO KNOW.
SO DID CHRIS.
CHRIS WAS A STUDENT,
JUST LIKE YOU.
HE SAT IN THIS VERY ROOM,
AND HE SAW AND HEARD
THE VERY SAME THINGS
THAT YOU DID TODAY,
AND IT SCARED HIM.
WHEN HE WENT HOME,
HE TOLD HIS PARENTS EVERYTHING.
THE NEXT DAY, CHRIS' PARENTS
DECIDED TO GO ON A TRIP.
BEFORE THEY LEFT,
HIS DAD CLOSED THE GARAGE DOOR.
HIS MOM CONNECTED
THE GARDEN HOSE
FROM THE TAILPIPE
TO THE WINDOW.
HIS DAD TURNED THE KEY.
AND 15 MINUTES LATER...
THEY WERE ALL DEAD.
THE REALITY IS
YOUR PARENTS HAVE LIVED TOO LONG
IN THE OLD WORLD.
THE TRUTH IS TOO MUCH
FOR THEIR MINDS.
TELLING THEM WOULD NOT ONLY
PUT THEIR LIVES IN DANGER
AND NOT JUST YOUR OWN
BUT ALL OF WAYWARD PINES.
[ BELL JINGLES ]
DAVID PILCHER FORESAW
A GREAT FLOOD,
AND HE BUILT AN ARK,
AND HE FILLED THIS ARK
WITH PEOPLE LIKE YOU AND ME.
PEOPLE HE DEEMED NECESSARY
FOR THE SURVIVAL OF MANKIND.
WE ARE THE LUCKY ONES,
THE CHOSEN FEW.
BUT THIS ARK WILL ONLY SURVIVE
IF WE ALL FOLLOW THE RULES.
IF THERE IS ONE HOLE,
ONE CRACK,
THEN THE WATER WILL GET IN,
AND WE WILL ALL DROWN.
IT'S UP TO YOU TO MAKE SURE
THAT DOESN'T HAPPEN.
IT'S UP TO YOU
TO STEER THE ARK SAFELY TO SHORE
BECAUSE YOU ARE...
All:
THE FIRST GENERATION.
I'M SORRY.
I DIDN'T CATCH THAT.
THE FIRST GENERATION!
I'M SORRY?
THE FIRST GENERATION!!
[ EXHALES SHARPLY ]
[ DOOR CLOSES ]
Bill: I THINK I OWE SOMEONE
A GOLD STAR.
[ WHISTLING ]
OH, I DIDN'T THINK YOU WERE
SERIOUS ABOUT THE GOLD STAR.
[ LAUGHS ]
I'M ALWAYS SERIOUS.
AND MY GUESS...
IS IT WON'T BE
THE LAST STAR THIS WEEK.
YOU'RE UP TO BAT AGAIN.
HOW OFTEN WOULD YOU SAY
PEOPLE MOVE TO WAYWARD PINES,
JUST AVERAGE?
I DON'T KNOW.
A COUPLE TRICKLE IN
EVERY MONTH OR SO, I GUESS.
PRETTY STEADY,
NOW THAT I THINK ABOUT IT,
LIKE CLOCKWORK.
THE MINUTE YOU NEED SOMEONE,
THEY JUST SHOW UP.
AND IS IT ALWAYS
AFTER AN ACCIDENT?
I'M SORRY?
I NOTICED THAT PEOPLE MOVING
TO WAYWARD PINES,
THEY'RE ALL
IN CAR ACCIDENTS.
I FIND THAT STRANGE,
DON'T YOU?
MY ADVICE...
IS DON'T THINK TOO HARD,
SWEETIE.
IT'S NOT VERY BECOMING,
AND I'D HATE FOR
SOMETHING TO HAPPEN
TO THAT PRETTY LITTLE FACE.
Megan: BIG SMILE.
[ CAMERA SHUTTER CLICKS ]
[ SIGHS ]
NOW, IF YOU WILL
ALL PLEASE FOLLOW ME.
WELCOME
TO THE FIRST GENERATION.
[ RHYTHMIC THUDDING ]
[ TEMPO INCREASES ]
Dr. Jenkins: I KNOW
WHAT YOU'RE FEELING, ETHAN.
I KNOW
WHAT YOU'RE THINKING.
AT FIRST, IT'S --
IT'S THE PERSONAL THINGS.
THE FAMILY
YOU'LL NEVER SEE AGAIN,
YOUR FRIENDS.
THE BOSS
YOU THOUGHT YOU HATED.
AND THEN...
YOUR MIND STARTS
THINKING BIGGER.
ABOUT ALL
THE LOST CULTURE --
LANGUAGES, ART,
KNOWLEDGE.
THOUSANDS OF YEARS OF CULTURE
ALL GONE IN AN INSTANT.
AND YOU START TO THINK,
"IS THIS REALLY IT?
"THE LAST OF MANKIND?
DO I EVEN
WANT TO BE HERE?"
BUT SLOWLY, SLOWLY,
YOU REALIZE
EVERYTHING YOU STILL HAVE,
A NEW COMMUNITY...
[ LAUGHTER ]
...A FAMILY...
...A FUTURE.
YOU STILL HAVE
WAYWARD PINES.
BUT WHAT IS
WAYWARD PINES?
COME WITH ME,
AND I'LL SHOW YOU.
[ SCREECHING IN DISTANCE ]
WE HAVE TO GO.
NOW!
[ HELICOPTER ENGINE TURNS OVER ]
[ SCREECHING CONTINUES ]
LOOKS LIKE
YOU COULD USE A NURSE.
[ HELICOPTER BLADES WHIRRING ]
COME ON.
GO, GO, GO!
[ SCREECHING ]